Add Collection API (#1687)
huggingface/huggingface_hub: docs/source/en/guides/collections.md

<!--⚠️ Note that this file is in Markdown but contain specific syntax for our doc-builder (similar to MDX) that may not be
rendered properly in your Markdown viewer.
-->

> # Manage your collections

Reviewer: I think it may be more consistent to align the doc title with the title in the `toctree`; this makes it easier for users to use the same name to reference the doc

```suggestion
# Collections
```

> A collection is a group of related items on the Hub (models, datasets, Spaces, papers) that are organized together on a same page. Collections can be useful in many use cases such as creating your own portfolio, bookmarking content in categories or presenting a curated list of items your want to share. Check out this [guide](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/collections) to understand in more details what are Collections and how they look like on the Hub,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A collection is a group of related items on the Hub (models, datasets, Spaces, papers) that are organized together on the same page. Collections are useful for creating your own portfolio, bookmarking content in categories, or presenting a curated list of items you want to share. Check out this [guide](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/collections) to understand in more detail what collections are and how they look on the Hub.
```

> Managing collections can be done in the browser directly. In this guide, we will focus on how to do it programmatically using `huggingface_hub`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can directly manage collections in the browser, but in this guide, we will focus on how to manage it programmatically.
```

## Fetch a collection

> To fetch a collection, use [`get_collection`]. You can use it either on your own collections or any public one. To retrieve a collection, you must have its collection's `slug`. A slug is an identifier for a collection based on the title and a unique ID. You can find it in the URL of the collection page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use [`get_collection`] to fetch your collections or any public ones. You must have the collection's *slug* to retrieve a collection. A slug is an identifier for a collection based on the title and a unique ID. You can find the slug in the URL of the collection page.
```

<div class="flex justify-center">

>     <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/hfh_collection_slug.png"/>

Reviewer: Minor detail, but I think it'd be nice to highlight/underline the slug in the URL to immediately draw the user's eyes to it.

Author: Good idea. I updated the remote image: https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/hfh_collection_slug.png

</div>

> Here the slug is `"TheBloke/recent-models-64f9a55bb3115b4f513ec026"`. Let's fetch the collection:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's fetch the collection with, `"TheBloke/recent-models-64f9a55bb3115b4f513ec026"`:
```

```py
>>> from huggingface_hub import get_collection
>>> collection = get_collection("TheBloke/recent-models-64f9a55bb3115b4f513ec026")
>>> collection
Collection: { 
  {'description': "Models I've recently quantized.',
   'items': [...],
   'last_updated': datetime.datetime(2023, 9, 21, 7, 26, 28, 57000, tzinfo=datetime.timezone.utc),
   'owner': 'TheBloke',
   'position': 1,
   'private': False,
   'slug': 'TheBloke/recent-models-64f9a55bb3115b4f513ec026',
   'theme': 'green',
   'title': 'Recent models'}
}
>>> collection.items[0]
CollectionItem: { 
  {'item_object_id': '6507f6d5423b46492ee1413e',
   'author': 'TheBloke',
   'item_id': 'TheBloke/TigerBot-70B-Chat-GPTQ',
   'item_type': 'model',
   'lastModified': '2023-09-19T12:55:21.000Z',
   'position': 0,
   'private': False,
   'repoType': 'model'
   (...)
  }
}
```

The [`Collection`] object returned by [`get_collection`] contains:
- high-level metadata: `slug`, `owner`, `title`, `description`, etc.

> - a list of [`CollectionItem`] objects. Each item represents a model, a dataset, a Space or a paper.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- a list of [`CollectionItem`] objects; each item represents a model, a dataset, a Space, or a paper.
```

> All items of a collection are guaranteed to have:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All collection items are guaranteed to have:
```

- a unique `item_object_id`: this is the id of the collection item in the database

> - an `item_id`: this is the id on the Hub of the underlying item (model, dataset, Space, paper). It is not necessarily unique! only the `item_id`/`item_type` pair is unique.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- an `item_id`: this is the id on the Hub of the underlying item (model, dataset, Space, paper); it is not necessarily unique, and only the `item_id`/`item_type` pair is unique
```

> - an `item_type`: model, dataset, Space, paper.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- an `item_type`: model, dataset, Space, paper
```

> - the `position` of the item in the collection. Position can be updated to re-organize your collection (see [`update_collection_item`] below)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- the `position` of the item in the collection, which can be updated to reorganize your collection (see [`update_collection_item`] below)
```

> A `note` can also be attached to the item. This is useful to add additional information about the item (e.g. a comment, a link to a blog post, etc.). If an item doesn't have a note, the attribute still exists with a `None` value.

Reviewer: Maybe link to how you can attach a `note`?

```suggestion
A `note` can also be attached to the item. This is useful to add additional information about the item (a comment, a link to a blog post, etc.). The attribute still has a `None` value if an item doesn't have a note.
```

In addition to these base attributes, returned items can have additional attributes depending on their type: `author`, `private`, `lastModified`, `gated`, `title`, `likes`, `upvotes`, etc. None of these attributes are guaranteed to be returned.

## Create a new collection

> Now that we know how to get a [`Collection`], let's create our own! Use [`create_collection`] with a title and optionally a description.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that we know how to get a [`Collection`], let's create our own! Use [`create_collection`] with a title and description.
```

```py
>>> from huggingface_hub import create_collection

>>> collection = create_collection(
...     title="ICCV 2023",
...     description="Portfolio of models, papers and demos I presented at ICCV 2023",
... )
```

It will return a [`Collection`] object with the high-level metadata (title, description, owner, etc.) and an empty list of items. You will now be able to refer to this collection using it's `slug`.

```py
>>> collection.slug
'iccv-2023-15e23b46cb98efca45'
>>> collection.title
"ICCV 2023"
>>> collection.owner
"username"
```

> To create a collection on an organization page, pass `namespace="my-cool-org"` when creating the collection. Finally, you can also create private collections by passing `private=True`.

Reviewer: I think this paragraph makes more sense if you put it at the beginning of the section when you're describing `create_collection`

## Manage items in a collection

> Now that we have a [`Collection`], we want to add items to it and organize them.

Reviewer: Nice job adding a sentence here describing the section instead of leaving it empty!

### Add items

Items have to be added one by one using [`add_collection_item`]. You only need to know the `collection_slug`, `item_id` and `item_type`. Optionally, you can also add a `note` to the item.

```py
>>> from huggingface_hub import create_collection, add_collection_item

>>> collection = create_collection(title="OS Week Highlights - Sept 18 - 24", namespace="osanseviero")
>>> collection.slug

> "osanseviero/os-week-highlights-sept-18-24-650bfed7f795a59f491afb80"

Reviewer 2: nice find :D

Author: Always try to highlight some cool stuff in the docs examples :hugs:

Reviewer 3: nice growth hack for Omar's profile:)

>>> add_collection_item(collection.slug, item_id="coqui/xtts", item_type="space")
>>> add_collection_item(
...     collection.slug,
...     item_id="warp-ai/wuerstchen",
...     item_type="model",
...     note="Würstchen is a new fast and efficient high resolution text-to-image architecture and model"
... )
>>> add_collection_item(collection.slug, item_id="lmsys/lmsys-chat-1m", item_type="dataset")
>>> add_collection_item(collection.slug, item_id="warp-ai/wuerstchen", item_type="space") # same item_id, different item_type
```

> If an item already exists in a collection (i.e. same `item_id`/`item_type` pair), an HTTP 409 error will be raised. You can choose to ignore this error by setting `exists_ok=True`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If an item already exists in a collection (same `item_id`/`item_type` pair), an HTTP 409 error will be raised. You can choose to ignore this error by setting `exists_ok=True`.
```

### Add a note to an existing item

You can modify an existing item to add or modify the note attached to it using [`update_collection_item`]. Let's reuse the example above:

```py
>>> from huggingface_hub import get_collection, update_collection_item

# Fetch collection with newly added items
>>> collection_slug = "osanseviero/os-week-highlights-sept-18-24-650bfed7f795a59f491afb80"
>>> collection = get_collection(collection_slug)

# Add note the `lmsys-chat-1m` dataset
>>> update_collection_item(
...     collection_slug=collection_slug,
...     item_object_id=collection.items[2].item_object_id,
...     note="This dataset contains one million real-world conversations with 25 state-of-the-art LLMs.",
... )
```

> ### Re-order items

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Reorder items
```

> Items in a collection are ordered. The order is determined by the `position` attribute of each item. By default, items are ordered by appending new items at the end of the collection. You can update the ordering using [`update_collection_item`] the same way you would add a note.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Items in a collection are ordered. The order is determined by the `position` attribute of each item. By default, items are ordered by appending new items at the end of the collection. You can update the order using [`update_collection_item`] the same way you would add a note.
```

Let's reuse our example above:

```py
>>> from huggingface_hub import get_collection, update_collection_item

# Fetch collection
>>> collection_slug = "osanseviero/os-week-highlights-sept-18-24-650bfed7f795a59f491afb80"
>>> collection = get_collection(collection_slug)

# Reorder to place the two `Wuerstchen` items together
>>> update_collection_item(
...     collection_slug=collection_slug,
...     item_object_id=collection.items[3].item_object_id,
...     position=2,
... )
```

### Remove items

> Finally you can also remove an item using [`delete_collection_item`].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, you can also remove an item using [`delete_collection_item`].
```
